Meetup 26 Resources (#193)
w3c/wot-cg: Meetups/26/2025-03-27-minutes.md

# Meeting Minutes

## Info

:date: **Date:** 27 March 2025

### :bust_in_silhouette: Participants

<!-- This list will copied over from the meeting tool -->
- Ege Korkan
- Cristiano Aguzzi
- Henk Spaaj
- Kunihiko Toumura
- Jase Kraft
- Tomoaki Mizushima
- Sibla, Wilfried
- Tamoghna Ojha
- Piotr Sowiński
- Yusuf Koç

:writing_hand: **Scribe:** Ege

----

### Introduction

- Cris: Welcome Everyone!

### News

Cris: No new meetup planned. You can let us know if you want to present something.

Cris: We have the tutorial shaping up. Also 3 projects for the Google Summer of Code are available from Eclipse Thingweb.

Cris: Joining the groups is free, you can join using the button.

### Meetup Presentation

Cris: We have Henk Spaaj here. He is a retired Senior Software Engineer and development manager. He was educated as Electronics Engineer and has over 30 years of software development experience in embedded industrial and consumer solutions

> Henk: I did development before for enterprises etc. Since 2023 doing WoT.

Reviewer: Maybe better to change it to:
Henk: I started with MQTT and myzone. Then went to NGSI-LD. Working with WoT since 2023.

Author: ```suggestion
Henk: I started with MQTT and myzone. Then went to NGSI-LD. Working with WoT since 2023.
```

Henk: I bought a piece of land had pump house built a pump house on it and the one you see in the picture. The house itself is a bit further away and if something goes something goes wrong in that pump house then, I'd rather be ahead of the game than finding out that the water is frozen.

> Henk: I have started with MQTT and myzone. Then went to NGSI-LD.

Reviewer: This line can be removed. See comment on the previous paragraphs.

Author: ```suggestion
```

Henk: The router can do validation like access right checking. Actions can be kept as a queue.

Henk: (shows event flow, also valid for property updates)

Henk: All messages have an envelope, like message id, timestamp etc.

Henk: You can actually use the bindings independent from the hub.

Henk: Current services are: Launcher, history of events, web ui, server CA management, and more.

Henk: Protocol bindings include zwave, insteon, 1-wire

Henk: The command line has some utilities. You can generate client code and also vocabularies.

Henk: For the demo now. This is an HTMX based UI.

Henk: You can click on a property and see history.

Henk: (shows a TD)

Henk: I know that this is not a compliant TD. The forms are omitted.

Henk: Without type annotations, I don't think that the standards will go far.

Henk: I was struggling with enums . I am now going with oneOf so that I can add title.

Henk: HiveOT also has a directory. It shows services and Things, based on tags developed for HiveOT.

Henk: Some devices have a lot of properties. Like this multi sensor having 120. The TD is massive and that is without forms.

Henk: So you can ask how we can interact with Things without forms.

> Henk: I want to put them but basically you are interacting with all the Things over the hub. So the expressive power of forms is not needed. We can assume.

Author: ```suggestion
Henk: Forms will be included in the TD but they add little value as all interactions with Things use the single hub connection. So the expressive power of forms is not needed.
```

> Henk: The hub is meant for administrator people. You can see running services for example.

Reviewer: The hubcli commandline utility is meant for administrators.

Author: ```suggestion
Henk: The hubcli commandline utility is meant for administrators. You can see running services for example.
```

Henk: This is needed to solve a problem. For example an action that changes the state, like switching that changes the switch state. A switch can also be toggled manually. So it needs a property for the state.

Henk: To link these, I give the same name. This problem needs to be solved.

Henk: when to choose actions vs properties. There is no guidance so I made my own rules.

Henk: Same for events vs properties. So properties are internal state and events are external states in hiveot.

Henk: Also for results of actions. It is unclear. The spec says it is dependent on the protocol. It is not nice for a hub as it should be generic.

Henk: There are some other small things like multi-line descriptions and comments.

Henk: Also map type would be nice.

### Discussion

Cris: We should definitely collect the challenges. Very valuable for working group.

Yusuf: The `oneOf` solution is nice. How do you handle property values that are dependent on other properties? Did you face such a case?

Henk: Not myself but I can see that happening.

Ege: I see this use case at Siemens.

Yusuf: We should exchange on this.

Cris: Can you elaborate on sharing the SSE?

> Henk: The standard assumes a new connection per request. So I define a message envelope. I defined 3 types of envelope. It is quite powerful this way.

Reviewer: Henk: The standard assumes a new connection per request. So I define a message envelope. I defined 3 types of envelopes for all interaction with all things over a single SSE connection. It is quite powerful this way.

Author: ```suggestion
Henk: The standard assumes a new connection per request. So I define a message envelope. I defined 3 types of envelopes for all interaction with all things over a single SSE connection. It is quite powerful this way.
```
